docs: Prepare documentation for FireFly v1.3.0 (#1461)
hyperledger/firefly: docs/releasenotes/1.3_migration_guide.md

---
layout: default
title: v1.3.0 Migration Guide
parent: pages.release_notes
nav_order: 1
---

# v1.2.0 Migration Guide
{: .no_toc }

## Table of contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

1. TOC
{:toc}

---

## Overview

Hyperledger FireFly v1.3.0 is a feature release that includes changes around event streaming, contract listeners, define/publish APIs as well as a range of general fixes.

For the most part, upgrading from v1.2.x to v1.3.0 should be a seamless experience, but there are several important things to note about changes between the two versions, which are described in detail on this page.

## API definition/publication considerations

> **As of FireFly v1.3.0, by default, contract interfaces, contracts APIs, and token pools are unpublished when they are created.**

Reviewer: Two notes that I think should be added here:

1. This only applies to multiparty namespaces
2. This is a new feature, and I think the way we describe it should highlight the increased flexibility that it provides. We have differentiated creating a resource and publishing it, giving users more control over how and when data is shared in a multiparty namespace

> These following described changes impact contract interfaces, contract APIs, and token pools. Previously, when creating one of the affected resources, if successful, the resource would be automatically peered to other members of the multi-party network. This default behaviour has changed, now when one of those resources is defined, it by default is not peered to other members of the network, unless a publish query parameter has been provided. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These following described changes impact contract interfaces, contract APIs, and token pools. Previously, when creating one of the affected resources, if successful, the resource would be automatically broadcasted to other members of the multi-party network. This default behaviour has changed, now when one of those resources is defined, it by default is not broadcasted to other members of the network, unless a publish query parameter has been provided. 
```

Author: Resolved in https://github.com/hyperledger/firefly/pull/1461/commits/e78839f3382b6e0bc379baa9b88331c60e303f94

In FireFly v1.2.0 to create one of the affected resources and publish it to other parties, a `POST` call would be made to its respective API route and the broadcast would happen immediately. To achieve the same behaviour in FireFly v1.3.0, there are 2 options for all impacted resources, either providing a query parameter at creation to signal immediate publish, or a subsequent API call to publish the resources.

> > **NOTE**: All of the impacted resources can be deleted locally using `DELETE` APIs, however, once the resources has been published, it is no longer possible to delete.

Reviewer: This is actually a pretty important new feature which I think should be highlighted a bit more prominently. Previously, if you made a mistake when creating a token pool (as an example) you could not create another one with the same name, etc so you were stuck with a broken REST resource. Now you have a chance to create it and use it on your FireFly node before publishing it and pinning it to the blockchain.

Author: On these points I've opted for a slight-rewrite in this commit https://github.com/hyperledger/firefly/pull/1461/commits/c137e9d33fcf11199d2dd2cd4cb7b58dec7c0656, will request a re-review when we're in a good place.

[For an exact view of the changes to contract interfaces, see PR #1279.](https://github.com/hyperledger/firefly/pull/1279)

### Contract APIs

Previously, to create a contract API a `POST` call would be made to `/apis` and the API would be broadcasted to all other namepsaces. In FireFly v1.3.0, this same call can be made with the `publish=true` query parameter, or a subsequent API call can be made on an unpublished API on `/apis/{apiName}/publish` specifying the name of the API.

[For an exact view of the changes to contract APIs, see PR #1322.](https://github.com/hyperledger/firefly/pull/1322)

### Token pools

Previously, to create a token pool a `POST` call would be made to `/tokens/pools` and the token pool would be broadcasted to all other namepsaces. In FireFly v1.3.0, this same call can be made with the `publish=true` query parameter, or a subsequent API call can be made on an unpublished token pool on `/tokens/pools/{nameOrId}/publish` specifying the name or ID of the token pool.

[For an exact view of the changes to token pools, see PR #1261.](https://github.com/hyperledger/firefly/pull/1261)

## Event stream considerations

### Single event stream per namespace

> In this release, the model for event streams in a multi-party network has fundamentally changed. Previously, there was a single event stream for all members in the network, in FireFly v1.3.0 there is now a single event stream per namespace in the network. The migration to individual event streams promotes high-availability capability but is not itself a breaking change, however the ID format for event streams has changed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this release, the model for event streams in a multi-party network has fundamentally changed. Previously, there was a single event stream for each blockchain plugin, even if this plugin served multiple namespaces. In FireFly v1.3.0 there is now a single event stream per namespace in the network. The migration to individual event streams promotes high-availability capability but is not itself a breaking change, however the ID format for event streams has changed.
```

Event streams now follow the format `<plugin_topic_name>/<namespace_name>`. For example, an event stream for the default namespace with a plugin topic of 0 would now be: `0/default`.

> [For an exact view of the changes, see PR #1388.](https://github.com/hyperledger/firefly/pull/1388)

Reviewer: Two other notes here that should be added:
1. The migration from FireFly 1.2.x -> 1.3 will result in a rebuilding of the existing event streams. This means that connectors will replay past events to FireFly, but FireFly will automatically de-duplicate them by design so this is a safe operation.
2. These changes should result in no impact to end users of FireFly. They are merely noted here in the release notes because they are a significant architectural change to the relationship between namespaces, plugins, and connectors.

Author: Restructured with changes in https://github.com/hyperledger/firefly/pull/1461/commits/c0b0901e27687a47201733d0a052a59db63fa5de
